---
layout: post
title:  "Linking"
date:   2021-10-19 09:11:34 +0000
category: roguelike
tags: ecs component entity code dictionary
---

# Hookup
We've got our Entity, and our Component. Now to hook them together. We're going to use a Dictionary of IComponents on Entity to do it. I'm not worrying yet about the guts of IComponent yet, I've just looked ahead at my plan and I know that this interface is going to be what I pass around and generically examine in my Systems so my Dictionary needs to have that as the type to make things simple.  

## More Code
Let's update our EntityTests.cs first. I could just add another Assert to the test I already have, but I like to specifically name tests for what they do and have very small amounts of work in them so that when a test fails, the failed test name points me really tightly into the place in the code where the problem is. It's true that a lot of the good tools will give you lots more information than the name of the failing test, but we're purposely putting in a little extra time in order to always save time in the future when things are much more complex. I'll start by copying my existing test and then mangle it.  

``` csharp
        [TestMethod]
        public void DefaultEntityHasIdZero()
        {
            var entity = new Entity();
            Assert.AreEqual(entity.Id, 0);
        }
```

...becomes...  

``` csharp
        [TestMethod]
        public void DefaultEntityHasZeroComponents()
        {
            var entity = new Entity();
            Assert.AreEqual(1, entity.components.Count());
        }
```

Red Squiggly! Right, create the dictionary on Entity...  

``` csharp
        public Dictionary<string, IComponent> components;
```

Red Squiggly on Dictionary, right, we need a using...  

``` csharp
using System.Collections.Generic;
```

Looking at the test again, I notice I still have a red squiggly, this time only on ```.Count()``` but the explaination is easy, the intellisense tells me that ```.Count``` is what I really want because it's a property, not a method. No more red squigglies, let's save all the files and run the tests.  

``` powershell
dotnet test
```

No compile errors, good. Four tests now, good. And, the new one failed, good. Why? Because the components property is null on a new instance.  

``` 
  X DefaultEntityHasZeroComponents [71ms]
  Error Message:
   Test method physics_test.EntityTests.DefaultEntityHasZeroComponents threw exception:
System.NullReferenceException: Object reference not set to an instance of an object.
  Stack Trace:
      at physics_test.EntityTests.DefaultEntityHasZeroComponents() in D:\source\repos\roguelike-tutorial\physics-test\EntityTests.cs:line 20


Test Run Failed.
Total tests: 4
     Passed: 3
     Failed: 1
 Total time: 2.0888 Seconds
PS D:\source\repos\roguelike-tutorial>
```

Awesome, hook that up, save files, run tests, failure one last time, this time actually the failure I've been expecting.  

```
Assert.AreEqual failed. Expected:<1>. Actual:<0>.
```

Change the test to the actual real expected count and save files, run tests one more time and we're finished with a passing test scenario where we can check the git status, add files, commit and push.  